Profiling Docs overhaul update (#7803)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/tracing/profiling/getting_started.md

    ```

**Note**:

- The `-javaagent` needs to be run before the `-jar` file, adding it as a JVM option, not as an application argument. For more information, see the [Oracle documentation][3]:

    ```shell
    # Good:
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ... -jar my-service.jar -more-flags
    # Bad:
    java -jar my-service.jar -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ...
    ```

- It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`                           | Boolean       | Alternate for `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` argument. Set to `true` to enable profiling.               |

> | `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][2] name.     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | Your [service][2] name, for example `web-backend`.     |
```

> | `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][4] name, for example `production`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | Your [environment][4] name, for example `production`.|
```

> | `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your service.                             |
```

We should be consistent :-)

> | `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.  |

Reviewer: Can you double check we're ok with spaces after commas?

Author: easy to just remove the space hehe

[1]: https://docs.oracle.com/javacomponents/jmc-5-4/jfr-runtime-guide/about.htm
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[3]: https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/tools/solaris/java.html
[4]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-java/releases/tag/v0.55.1
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Python" %}}

The Datadog Profiler requires Python 2.7+. Memory profiling only works on Python 3.5+. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1] or [6.20.2][1].

2. Install `ddtrace` which contains both tracing and profiling:

    ```shell
    pip install ddtrace
    ```

>      **Note**: Profiling is available in the `ddtrace` library for versions 0.36+.

Reviewer: Maybe something about removing `[profile]` if upgrading from a previous version?

Reviewer: If we knew it was a clean install we wouldn't need to specify a min version.

3. To automatically profile your code, import `ddtrace.profile.auto`. After import, the profiler starts:

    ```python
    import ddtrace.profiling.auto
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][2].

**Note**:

- Alternatively, profile your service by running it with the wrapper `pyddprofile`:

    ```shell
    $ pyddprofile server.py
    ```

> - It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

Reviewer: Same comment as java.

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][3] name.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][4] name, for example `production`. |
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |

> | `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.   |

Reviewer: Same comment as java.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Recommended for advanced usage only.
</div>

- If you want to manually control the lifecycle of the profiler, use the `ddtrace.profiling.profiler.Profiler` object:

    ```python
    from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

    prof = Profiler()
    prof.start()

    # At shutdown
    prof.stop()
    ```

- When your process forks using `os.fork`, the profiler is stopped in the child process.

  For Python 3.7+ on POSIX platforms, a new profiler is started if you enabled the profiler via `pyddprofile` or `ddtrace.profiling.auto`.

>   If you manually instrument the profiler, or if you rely on Python < 3.6 or a non-POSIX platform, manually restart the profiler in your child with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If you manually create a `Profiler()`, use Python < 3.6, or run on a non-POSIX platform, manually restart the profiler in your child with:
```

   ```python
   ddtrace.profiling.auto.start_profiler()

>    ```

Reviewer: I suspect many users won't be sure if their tools use os.fork under the hood. It might be worth mentioning a common use case, like the `multiprocessing` package in the standard library, and an example snippet of how to do this there. cc @jd if you have thoughts.

Nit- I'd put this above manual control of profiler lifecycle.

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[3]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[4]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Go" %}}

The Datadog Profiler requires Go 1.12+. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1] or [6.20.2][1].

2. Get `dd-trace-go` using the command:

    ```shell
    go get gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1
    ```

     **Note**: Profiling is available in the `dd-trace-go` library for versions 1.23.0+.

3. Import the [profiler][2] at the start of your application:

    ```Go
    import "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler"
    ```

4. Add the following snippet to start the profiler:

    ```Go
    err := profiler.Start(
        profiler.WithService("<SERVICE_NAME>"),
        profiler.WithEnv("<ENVIRONMENT>"),

>         profiler.WithVersion("<APPLICATION_VERSION>"),

Reviewer: \o/ WithVersion :-)

>         profiler.WithTags("<KEY1>:<VALUE1>, <KEY2>:<VALUE2>"),

Reviewer: Can you double check that we're ok with spaces after commas?

    )
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer profiler.Stop()
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles in the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][3].

**Note**:

- It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use profiler configuration to set the parameters:

| Method | Type          | Description                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
|  WithService     | String        | The Datadog [service][4] name, for example `my-web-app`.             |
|  WithEnv         | String        | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example `production`.         |
|  WithVersion     | String        | The version of your application.                                                                             |  

> |  WithTags        | String        | The tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of in the format `<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>`. |

Reviewer: Same comment as java.

- Alternatively you can also set the profiler configuration using environment variables:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][4] name.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example `production`. |
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |

> | `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.   |

Reviewer: Here too :-)

Reviewer: It seems verbose to duplicate the types and descriptions rather than keeping both config mechanisms in a single table. Up to you.

      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Learn more about available profile types.'
    - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/introducing-datadog-profiling/'
      tags: 'Blog'
      text: 'Introducing always-on production profiling in Datadog.'
---

Profiling libraries are shipped within the following tracing language libraries. Select your language below to learn how to enable profiling for your application:

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Java" %}}

The Datadog Profiler requires [Java Flight Recorder][1]. The Datadog Profiling library is supported in OpenJDK 11+, Oracle Java 11+, and Zulu Java 8+ (minor version 1.8.0_212+). All JVM-based languages, such as Scala, Groovy, Kotlin, Clojure, etc. are supported. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][2] or [6.20.2][2].

2. Download `dd-java-agent.jar`, which contains the Java Agent class files:

    ```shell
    wget -O dd-java-agent.jar 'https://repository.sonatype.org/service/local/artifact/maven/redirect?r=central-proxy&g=com.datadoghq&a=dd-java-agent&v=LATEST'
    ```

     **Note**: Profiling is available in the `dd-java-agent.jar` library in versions 0.44+.

> 3. Set `Ddd.profiling.enabled` flag or `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. Update to your service invocation should look like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Set `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` flag or `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED` environment variable to `true`. Update to your service invocation should look like:
```

    ```shell
    # Good:
    java -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ... -jar my-service.jar -more-flags
    # Bad:
    java -jar my-service.jar -javaagent:dd-java-agent.jar ...
    ```

- It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_PROFILING_ENABLED`                           | Boolean       | Alternate for `-Ddd.profiling.enabled` argument. Set to `true` to enable profiling.               |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][2] name.     |
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][4] name, for example `production`.|

> | `DD_VERSI0ON`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |
```

    ```

     **Note**: Profiling is available in the `ddtrace` library for versions 0.36+.

3. To automatically profile your code, import `ddtrace.profile.auto`. After import, the profiler starts:

    ```python
    import ddtrace.profiling.auto
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles on the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][2].

**Note**:

- Alternatively, profile your service by running it with the wrapper `pyddprofile`:

    ```shell
    $ pyddprofile server.py
    ```

- It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use environment variables to set the parameters:

| Environment variable                             | Type          | Description                                                                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `DD_SERVICE`                                     | String        | The Datadog [service][3] name.     |

> | `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][4] name, for example `production`, which can be set here, or in `DD_PROFILING_TAGS` with `DD_PROFILING_TAGS="env:production"`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `DD_ENV`                                         | String        | The Datadog [environment][4] name, for example `production`. |
```

If we have a dedicated env for it, why complicate things?

| `DD_VERSION`                                     | String        | The version of your application.                             |
| `DD_TAGS`                                        | String        | Tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of `<key>:<value>` separated by commas such as: `layer:api, team:intake`.   |

<div class="alert alert-info">
Recommended for advanced usage only.
</div>

- If you want to manually control the lifecycle of the profiler, use the `ddtrace.profiling.profiler.Profiler` object:

    ```python
    from ddtrace.profiling import Profiler

    prof = Profiler()
    prof.start()

    # At shutdown
    prof.stop()
    ```

> 

Reviewer 3: Seems like the `fork` warning has disappeared. Not sure it's a good idea since customers complain that profiling does not work when they use e.g. a task manager like Celery.

[1]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent/overview
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/profiling
[3]: /tracing/visualization/#services
[4]: /tracing/guide/setting_primary_tags_to_scope/#environment
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Go" %}}

The Datadog Profiler requires Go 1.12+. To begin profiling applications:

1. If you are already using Datadog, upgrade your agent to version [7.20.2][1] or [6.20.2][1].

2. Get `dd-trace-go` using the command:

    ```shell
    go get gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1
    ```

     **Note**: Profiling is available in the `dd-trace-go` library for versions 1.23.0+.

3. Import the [profiler][2] at the start of your application:

    ```Go
    import "gopkg.in/DataDog/dd-trace-go.v1/profiler"
    ```

4. Add the following snippet to start the profiler:

    ```Go
    err := profiler.Start(
        profiler.WithService("<SERVICE_NAME>"),
        profiler.WithEnv("<ENVIRONMENT>"),

>         profiler.WithTags("version:<APPLICATION_VERSION>"),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        profiler.WithVersion("<APPLICATION_VERSION>"),
```

https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-go/blame/057f9e89bd3ee9893b1b579b5a4f7dcd7c56aa95/profiler/options.go#L208

All of these can also be set from env variables and other language instructions seem to default to these so we should arguably do the same here.

    )
    if err != nil {
        log.Fatal(err)
    }
    defer profiler.Stop()
    ```

4. After a minute or two, visualize your profiles in the [Datadog APM > Profiling page][3].

**Note**:

> - It is strongly recommended to add tags like `service` or `version` as it provides the ability to slice and dice your profiles across these dimensions, enhancing your overall product experience. Use profiler configuration to set the parameters:

Reviewer 2: I'd personally change this section on all languages to describe how to configure both:
* With environment variables
* With code (where available)

In this PR we have a mix between one version and the other, with some hints as to the existence of an alternative configuration. Lets be explicit imo.

Author: Yeah for sure, I think instead of making a full blown two paths example, ill simply add a note saying  `Alternatively you can also set the profiler configuration using environment variables:` with env var tables!

Reviewer: This is also true for -D vs env var in java.

And same comment as java on language.

| Method | Type          | Description                                                                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> |  WithService     | String        | The Datadog [service][4] name, for example `my-web-app`, which can be set here, or in `DD_TAGS`.             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  WithService     | String        | The Datadog [service][4] name, for example `my-web-app`, which can be set here, or in `DD_SERVICE`.             |
```

Author: Updated in the next commit

> |  WithEnv         | String        | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example `production`, which can be set here, or in `DD_TAGS`.         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  WithEnv         | String        | The Datadog [environment][5] name, for example `production`, which can be set here, or in `DD_ENV`.         |
```

Author: Updated in the next commit

> |  WithTags        | String        | The tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of in the format `<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  WithVersion    | String        | The Datadog [version] which can be set here or in `DD_VERSION` |
|  WithTags        | String        | The tags to apply to an uploaded profile. Must be a list of in the format `<KEY1>:<VALUE1>,<KEY2>:<VALUE2>`. |
```

Author: Updated in the next commit
